673 Duncan Oakes Drive
North Baysville, CA 53286 
North America
Earth
Sol

1/1/3200


Dear Jake

I never forget my promises and I always repay my debts.   Your actions last October saved my youngest daughter and for that I will be eternally grateful.  I know I can never fully repay you for what you have done, but I couldn't live with myself if I didn't try.

We didn't spent much time together before the explosion but I remember how passionately you spoke of your grandfathers travels through space.  This struck a chord with me as it is a life I have also experienced.  The isolation, being your own boss, never having to see another living soul if you don't want to, the possibility of flying away from civilisation and not stopping till you have passed the edge of explored space.   Living your dreams where you want, when you want.  There is a Pioneer in all of us, but I know yours is stronger than mine.

Packaged with this letter is the manual and access chit for a second-hand shuttle, a small token of my appreciation.  By the time you receive this letter she'll be fuelled, certified and ready to fly from your local starport.  It may be a small ship but it punches above its weight in terms of performance.  She even comes loaded with the basic equipment to get you going, but it'll be up to you to equip her properly.  

I know this is a lot of new information, most of it foreign to you so I've annotated the manual where appropriate.  You'll struggle at first, It took me a year in space to find my feet (metaphorically of course), but you'll quickly find the niche that’s right for you.  There is money in trading – I'm proof of that – but something tells me that won't sate your thirst for adventure.  Doing odd jobs can be its own reward, never working for the same person twice, drifting on the darkest sea like the sail boats of old.  Bounty Hunting may come later if you have the skills.  If not you may fall into the trap of piracy, but I pray you won't.  If you get bored you can always run freelance missions for one of the governments.  The Galaxy is at peace my friend, but I find that is when it is at its most dangerous.

I can't tell you what will happen, where you go and whether you will survive, but regardless of the outcome I hope you enjoy the journey and that my small token brings you a lifetime of happiness.
If you are ever back this way again make sure you stop by for a beer.


Your friend,






Carl Noebbers

