Confederation of Independent Worlds
(eight systems, including 4 stage 1 colonies)

Member Systems
*Epsilon Eridani (Captial) *Ross 128

Expansion Rules/Conditions
System of Origin: Epsilon Eridani

Expansion shape: ellipsoidal away from Sol (to minimise the front they have to defend)

Mood: Aggressive. Eternal Vigilance is the call card of the CIW and they know that they need people and money if they are keep their independence from the Solar Federation, so they expand to grow the people and the money they need.

Policy: Post War of Hope the policy is to create as many colonies as possible but only away from Sol.

Systems interested in: Systems with earth-clone planets or anything close to it. They don't have the money and resources for underground habitats or terraforming. They need planets that are ready or almost ready to move straight onto. Empty systems are excellent for training grounds or secret experiments. Space stations created in the barycentre of empty system binary pairs are well protected and hidden and good for a bunch of things.

Systems not interested in: Systems with many rocky or gaseous worlds, worlds that the Solar federation would go after.

Technology Rating: 8 (on old elite scale): Can create basic space stations and do low level terraforming of suitable planets to be more friendly for human life. No full terraforming, limited Self contained habitats.

Specials: There are those that saviour a hard earned righteous victory and there are those that believe the war is never over. Some divisions within the CIW believe they will never be safe until the Solar Federation is destroyed and some colonies will be established by these people with that militaristic mindset.

History
The seed of the confederation of independent Worlds was laid in 2715 when the Solar Federation's navy brutually crushed the Free republic independence with orbital bombardment of city and captured military base alike. A puppet government was established, but within the corridors of this manchurian state the dream of independence lived on. The lesson had been learnt however: freedom had to be earnt, through blood, and tears, and eternal vigilance.

While the military kept a steel gauntlet pressed on New Hope, the peripheral bases in the Epsilon Eridani began to evolve in secret. Small scale shipyards popped up producing 'commercial' units that were armed with weaponry smuggled in from neighbouring colonies. The collusion grew and Ross 128, another tributary but one watched far less vigourously, became a critical member of the Independent Alliance.

Cregar Phillips of New Hope and Miles Antwerp of the Schuster Colony in Ross 128, leaders of this new Alliance knew that vigilance was their greatest need. To create a force strong enough to oppose the Solar Federation, they had to ensure that the Federation learnt nothing about their plans. Slowly their work began to yield results. Youth camps were used to disguise soldier training; the shipyards produced ships designed for commerce but armed and armoured, other colonies began to lend support, weapons, ships, personnel. Pilot training occured deep in the oort cloud away from Federation sensors.

Finally in 2723 with ships, men (and women), patriotism and the unofficial support of six solar systems, Cregar Phillips put initiated the War for hope. He broadcast throughout the Epsilon Eridani system a reading from George Washington's 1776 declaration of independence. He then went on to add that Epsilon Eridani would follow in their forebearers steps and no longer live under the gauntlet of Federation oppression and they would fight and give their lives for their freedom. At the same time his green but eager forces attacked the Federation's third fleet at its various bases throughout the system. This was to start two years of bloody warfare that would end with both sides on the ropes licking their wounds and a stalemate resulting in the formation of the Confederation of Independent Worlds

The most famous of all the naval battles was the Battle of Pritchard's Run, a large space station at the centre of a solar collector array. The Solar Federation had sent all there forces to Epsilon Eridani to finally crush all resistance and end the war quickly, as there was public unhappiness with the war back home. The Solar Fleet outnumbered the Ep-Er home fleet three to one. The home fleet had also just fought off the Solar fourth fleet and was still licking its wounds. It was battered, bruised, morale was low and those ships still in one piece still needed repair. When the combined 1st and 2nd Solar Fleets hyperjumped into Epsilon Eridani, those battered remnants were all that stood in their way. Rear Admiral Deacon, the last remaining Admiral yet also their most successfull rallied his men, reminded them of the orbital bombardments of history, that they were all that was left and it was their job to stop the deaths of their families down on New Hope. More through sheer desperation and a belief in fighting for something greater than themselves than brilliant strategy the Home fleet fought convincingly but ultimately the odds were too high. They took as many Solar ships down as they could but after a marathon battle the Rear Admiral's flagship was the last ship remaining. As he ordered a suicide charge at his opposite's ship, the long promised but never forthecoming reinforcements from Lacaille 27729 finally arrived. With fresh ships and even fresher personnel, the new ships wrestled the tide of the battle back toward the CIW and the battle was won.

There was never any official cessation of hostilities. Rather the Solar Federation ran out of ships, the public ran out of patience and the war was abandoned. CIW was left to lick its wounds, crippled in victory. Rebuilding of defenses were always paramount as no one could know if the Solar Federation would come back. They did not want to be caught again so an aggressive policy of expansion was enforced, with new colonies being despatched at a rate faster than ever before in human history. They did not bother with dead worlds, rather focusing on human-clone planets that they could move in, set up shop and begin creating weapons of war and babies (to grow up and use said weapons of war). Military conscription was mandatory for all able bodied citizens aged 18-24. The CIW navy grew with every passing month, but it could not keep pace with the rebuilding of the Solar Navy. Attention then went to fixed defenses - orbital defense platforms, research into planetary shielding, rocket arrays.

The rapid expansion policy would net results centuries down the track, which didn't help with their vulnerabilities straight away, so diplomats were sent to neighbouring independent colonies, trying to get them to join the CIW and collaborate. Some independents saw the aggression of the Solar Federation and agreed they would be stronger together. Some wished to retain independence but were happy to engage in trade and resource agreements. Others craved freedom above all other needs and spurred the CIW.

Today, the CIW is a young and growing political unit with a strong public voice that is anti-control. The government of the CIW is therefore quite a flexible and free system with few trade rules. No commodoties are illegal and the police force is lenient to anything other than piracy and murder.

