Haber Corp Combine
** Five closely knit solar systems under corporate rule. Borders are tightly enforced.

Membery Systems
•Haber
•Honnete
•Mercantilism
•Industrialism
•Monetarism
•Keyneiasm (System Destroyed)
Expansion Rules/Conditions
System of Origin: Haber

Expansion shape: spherical

Mood: Initially it was constant Once they had amassed five systems they began to push against other colonised systems (Independents, Solar Federation). Expansion then stopped and they looked at internal growth.

Systems interested in: Anything with raw material, preferably those with lots of gas giants and rocky plantes with minerals in them.

Systems not interested in: Not so interested in oxygen worlds. Not interested in good living conditions for their people, they just want productivity.

Specials: N/A

History
The Corporate rulers that fled Earth at the collapse of Haber set off in the last of the colonial generation ships. They found a sextuple system filled with ore laden asteroids and planetoids and a single earth-clone planet. They landed and name the planet Haber 1. they immediately set about re-creating what had been lost. With no environmental laws, no other interests and a people with no choice but to follow instruction, the Haber corporation quickly rebuilt and spread throughout the solar system. 

Every town was a company town; every planet was a company planet. Quietly and quickly every nook and cranny of the Haber system filled with ore processing plants, smelters, manufacturing facilities and overworked and underpaid workers living in squallid conditions. It wasn't for another five hundred years when hyperspace equipped ships broke the Haber borders for the first time that thought had to go to the wider galaxy: They weren't alone and others would come.

Quickly the Haber Corporation reformed their police system into Naval might to defend themselves. settlement ships launched in all directions hoping to claim as much land as possible. But the Corporation had started the space race late and many nearby systems had already been claimed. In some instances the Corporation backed off; in some instances they killed and pilaged and claimed the land for themselves. Some empty systems were colonised.

Word of Habers atrocities came to light in the Solar Federation, who sent a fleet to ascertain what had happened. Although no fighting eventuated, tensions were tight on both sides and negotiations resulted in the Haber Accord, where the corporation agreed to halt all expansion into space, retaining its six systems. . . until perhaps one day when they were strong enough to defeat the Solar Federation.

This day came at the end of the War for Hope. Haber had been building military power and when the Solar Federation lost its last fleet to the rag-tag CIW, Haber struck.

Although initially effective, Haber's military proved inept with unmotivated officers with little training, regimented (corporate thinking) and cheap equipment that often broke down. The Solar Federation, still under a war economy, were able to rebuild and counterattack. This culmunated in the complete and utter destruction of all inhabitation of the Keyneiasm solar system. With the threat of total destruction Haber yielded, signed a new agreement to retain their remaining five systems and pay substantial reparations. 

Today a state of unease continues around the untrustworthiness of Haber, while those at Haber hold onto their anger at the embarrassment and dream of the day when the Solar Federation can be toppled. Otherwise they continue along in their own corner of space doing what they have always done. Working conditions are poor and people begin their working life at the age of 8 and continue until they die. Few if any people earn enough to buy their freedom and acquire transport out of the system. With the lack of environmental controls, fresh food, liquid water and other necesseties of life fetch a high price. any privateer wishing to land at a Haber Corp starport must verify they have foodstuffs in their cargo bay.

