Solar Federation
(17 Systems, including 5 stage 1 colonies, 4 stage 2, 2 tributaries and six old worlds)

Member Systems
•Sol (old world)
•Barnards Star 
•Tau Ceti (old world)
•Alpha Centauri/Proxima
•Arcturus (old world)
•Wolf 359 (old world)
•Kapteyn's Star
•Van Maneens Star System
•Sigma Draconis
•Giliese 406
•61 Cygni
Expansion Rules/Conditions
System of Origin: Sol

Expansion shape: outward in all quadrants except toward Epsilon Eridani

Mood: aggressive

Policy: Pre War of Hope, conquer and take over independents. After War of Hope and War seen as very unpopular back home, policy changes to:

Cloak and Dagger: Solar Federation doesn't officially worry about all the independents out there. Unofficialy, it wants to rule everyone. Operatives (incl freelance) to create instability in independents so Solar Fed can swoop in as the hero to bring back order, or supply resources and worm its way into control

Systems interested in: Anything that is already colonised, any system with abundant resources ready for mining

Systems not interested in: empty systems, flare stars.

Technology Rating: 12 (on old elite scale): Can colonise airless rocks and will do so if it deemed appropriate. Can also do low level terraforming of suitable planets to be more friendly for human life. Can do full terraforming but only if a planet if super special.

Specials: from earth's ravaged environment past comes a wealth of environmental groups who like to set up enclaves in distant systems for whatever flora/fauna is of interest to them.

History
By the time man reached for the stars, Earth was combined under two separate governments. The third world war, fought for control over dwindly resources, left the Earth controlled by the United Countries of the West (UCW) and the Asia Communist Party (ACP). For fears of ending civilisation completely the two groups to end war on Earth. But space was another matter entirely. The UCW already controlled the moon and had a tenuous grip on Mars. The ACP was at a distinct disadvantage, but they had more ambition and set their sights on IO and Titan. The moon and mars bases were bringing in steady raw materials allowing the UCW to set their sights further out. Epsilon Eridani was determined to have the best candidate planet for a human colony and in 2259 the first of the generation ships, the Earth's Pride was launched.

The ACP developed a technology to harness seismic movements and established a set of bases on IO to take advantage of its active interior. Instead of spreading its resources wide, the ACP focused on IO to rape the moon of all she could offer. This short sightedness was the beginning of the end of the ACP as a major volcanic eruption in 2281 wiped out the array of IO bases leaving the ACP crippled and weakened.

Haber Corporation, a planetwide corporation that had its finger in every pie on Earth saw this weakness and struck with hired forces. After a successful coup de'tat, Haber resumed power of the ACP territories and converted it to a corporate society. In parallel, Habers interests in the UCW created disquiet, brought in additional troops and also forced a coup. This united the planet for the first time in its history under a single, corporate rule. With the full power of the Moon, Mars and Titan bases, Haber saw all the stars and their wealth as its own. A massive diaspora occurred over a fifty year period, with generation ships heading out to several nearby systems to establish colonies. Those with enough money were able to buy ships to strike out on their own, including a group of australian environmentalists and the infamous self-titled king Tolan Oberon.

In this fifty year period at least 25 registered colony ships left earth. 17 made landfall in 12 different systems. The rest were never heard from again.

While Habor cast its eyes to the heavens, it forgot about the ground it was standing on, a tepid waste from the last war and not getting any better. The remaining people on earth continued to suffer on the ravaged earth while their leaders refused to spend a cent to clean it up. 

Habor’s greed cost it. Fifty two years after taking control of the planet, Habor was throw out, its board killed or arrested, any surviving loyalists fleeing on the last colony ship to create a new corporate world. Earth fell into a mini dark ages, with anarchy prevalent across the globe. The infrastructure for government was in place, just no one knew what to do with it. While colonies sprouted on Epsilon Eridani, Arcturus, Tau Ceti, Sirius and more, Earth stagnated. Finally, after several decades Earth shook itself out of its slumber and created a united Solar Federation encompassing all the habitats of the solar system under a single leader. Manufacturing resumed, new bases were built, mining companies struck out further for materials, and with all of this came piracy. The military and police forces were bulked up to combat this growing piracy throughout the solar system. A radio signal was received from the Epsilon Eridani colony, named 'New Hope'. They were growing and establishing a manufacturing base. They had long term plans to act as a springboard for future colonies. the Solar Federation sent a return signal welcoming the colony to the Solar Federation and expected taxes. No message was received back.

In 2595 Henry Winkler blew up his laboratory while experimenting with accelerated space. After three more explosions he deduced he had fonud a way to access hyperspace but the influence of gravity resulted in unfortunately side effects. Further tests in low earth orbit confirmed his formulae and by the end of the millenia the technology had been commercialised. Suddenly all of the galaxy was accessible. Ships were sent to re-established contact with the generation ship colonies. The people's languages and nuances had changed over the centuries until they were almost a different race or nationality: like an american visiting australia for the first time.

As the Federation had military strength and the colonies did not, they were swept under into the fold as tributaries of the Solar Federation. Tax was paid, the navy divisions were posted for protection - of civilians and the tax collection.

Those dissatisfied with life on Earth found refuge in these lesser controlled colonies. New colonies were also settled, launched not just from Earth, but from the other 'old' colonies as they became known. The colony of New Hope, as the oldest and biggest attracted the ex-Earth dissenters. Populace moods changed, independence from the 'yoke of Earth' became part of the national identity. Radical groups were born, riots occured on a regular basis until finally in 2714 the government was overthrown, the local navy ships seized and the 'Free Republic' was established.

After months of failed negotiations and discussions, the Federation sent in their third fleet and destroyed all resistance, and brought Epsilon Eridani back into the fold. The third fleet relocated to Ep-Er and established bases on the planet to maintain the peace. 

Fortunately if there has been one lesson in history, its that a subjugated people never lay down to die. . .

The War for Hope as it became known was a gruesome affair that left the Solar Federation an an impass
